# HTR USING OPENCV AND TENSORFLOW
 Handwriting Recognition with OpenCV, Keras and TensorFlow

For this project, we wanted to somehow find a way to turn a handwritten sentence or a word to a text on computer. The fascinating part of this was that, how can we let the machine know that what are the words. So basically, the process that we imagined was that we were going to create a model so that when we give it a handwritten sentence or any sample, it will display us the exact handwritten sample on to the screen. If we could achieve this somehow, we were also planning to translate the written part to a given language to act as a converter. A similar example can be the Google’s translate function using camera. Even though it’s doing it in real time, this was a similar concept with few compromises from a user’s quality of life standpoint. We first tried to find a way to detect the letters of a given sample. There were already established papers and articles as well as examples.
We have two methods to solve this problem, and, in this report, we are also trying to decide to which way is working better. These methods are going to be explained in more detail within the later pages (also the comparison as which one is better for constant use). To explain it briefly, we tried different ways to calculate the length differences between two label boxes (Which we receive as outputs from OpenCV, more on that later). In the end, both models can give us proper results within various circumstances. We tried different instances and different platforms to write (Microsoft Paint, Pen & Paper etc.) And we believe that both perform sufficient for our needs but of course after some comparations we decided to go with the first model.
